# The IMOS NetLogo extension #
## Content ##

This java project contains the NetLogo IMOS extension (Intrinsic Motivation
System). The IMOS extension allows you to implement an intrinsically motivated agent in [NetLogo](http://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/). This extension uses the Ernest.jar library developed within the [Ernest Java project](http://code.google.com/p/e-ernest/).

Please see the [online demo](http://users.uom.gr/%7Eiliass/projects/NetLogo/Ernest/index.html) or [download the model](http://liris.cnrs.fr/ideal/netlogo/imos.zip).

## Instructions ##

### Initialize the agent ###

Use `imos:init n m` to initialize or reinitialize the agent (clear
all interactions and all learned sequences).

n (integer) = the regularity sensibility threshold (a lower value
favors the fast adoption of possibly less satisfying sequences,
a higher value favors the slow adoption of possibly more satisfying
sequences. Suggested value: 5)

m (integer) = the maximum sequence length (a low value makes learning
long sequences impossible, a high value makes possible the adoption of
unnecessarily long sequences. Suggested value in a 2D space: 4)

### Declare the possibilities of interaction of the agent in the environment ###

Use `imos:interaction n m o` to declare a primitive possibility of
interaction between the agent and the environment.

n (string) = The label of the interaction's experiment in the environment.

m (string) = The label of the interaction's result generated by the
environment.

o (integer) = The intrinsic satisfaction associated with this interaction.

Note: each tuple `[n,m]` defines a unique primitive interaction. Subsequent
calls to `imos:interaction` with these same two parameters will not change the satisfaction associated with this primitive interaction.

### Run the agent ###

Use `imos:step m o` to get the action to enact next, provided the
previously enacted interaction.

m (string) = The label of the previous interaction's stimuli generated
by the environment

o (integer) = The intrinsic satisfaction of the previous interaction
(only needed in case the previous interaction was not yet declared).

return (string): The label of the next action to execute in the
environment.